New GQL statuses (#164)
neo4j/docs-status-codes: modules/ROOT/pages/notifications/gqlstatus-info-codes.adoc

:description: The page contains GQLSTATUS info codes producing results such as SUCCESS, NO DATA, and OMITTED RESULT.

[[gql-status-info-codes]]

> = Primary GQLSTATUS codes

Author: ```suggestion
= General GQLSTATUS codes
```

Author: or it could be: GQL statuses for the `SUCCESS`, `OMITTED RESULT`, and `NO DATA` results.
But it's a long title

Reviewer: Actually, in CIP-105, they are called primary.

Reviewer: _"The primary GQL-status object is returned separately and accompanied with a list only constraining additional GQL-status objects."_

Reviewer 2: That is not referring to the same concept though, I think. According to GQL if we e.g. run a successful query with a deprecation we might get 01N01 (the deprecation) and 00000 (success). In this case it is 01N01 which is the primary GQLSTATUS because it is the most "important" or "severe" one. Implementation wise, we always return a single list with all of the sorted in an order so the primary object is first. In case GQL mandates it we will add method to return the primary object separately, where the implementation is pretty much just "take the first element in the list". 

So to call this chapter Primary GQLSTATUS would not be correct. I think General sounds OK. Does this make sense @renetapopova @NataliaIvakina @boggle ?

GQL requires several new statuses that are not covered by the current Neo4j notification framework.

.GQL status information codes
[cols="1,1,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|GQLSTATUS
|Condition
|Subcondition
|Description

| 00000
| Successful completion
|
| Successful completion with a regular non-empty result

| 00001
| Successful completion
| Omitted result
| Successful completion with no return columns (e.g., update with no `RETURN` clause)

| 02000
| No data
| 
| Successful completion with an empty result
|===

In summary:

* _successful completion_ (00000) is raised to indicate successful completion with a regular non-empty result.
* _successful completion — omitted result_ (00001) is raised to indicate successful completion with an omitted result.
* _no data_ (02000) is raised to indicate successful completion with an empty result.

> In the documentation, we call them `SUCCESS`, `OMITTED RESULT`, and `NO DATA`

Author: ```suggestion
In the documentation, these results are referred to as `SUCCESS`, `OMITTED RESULT`, and `NO DATA`.
```

All query executions always either return one of `SUCCESS`, `OMITTED RESULT`, or `NO DATA` results or result in an error.

link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/planning-and-tuning/[`EXPLAIN` queries] always give `OMITTED RESULT`.

Classification, severity, position, and status parameters are not meaningful for these GQL statuses, so they are not included in the diagnostic record but the corresponding getter methods on server and driver side will be poly-filled with the default values.

> These statuses are filled in by the server unless the server is too old to be aware of GQL-status objects (the case described in **Compatibility issues**), then it will be filled by the driver.

Author: I'd like to link this paragraph to the place where we'll talk about the compatibility between old server and new drivers.

:description: The page contains GQLSTATUS info codes producing results such as SUCCESS, NO DATA, and OMITTED RESULT.

[[gql-status-info-codes]]

> = Primary GQLSTATUS codes

Reviewer 2: As discussed in the weekly meeting, we need to come up with a better title for this page. I believe GQL already uses `primary` for the first GqlStatusObject in the list, which does not need to be one of the ones listed on this page. I don't have a good suggestion on the top of my head unfortunately, but maybe we can start a Slack thread with the rest of the error team and do some brainstorming

Reviewer 3: I can describe it only by negating what it is not. Like `non-notification`. This is also not optimal.

GQL requires several new statuses that are not covered by the current Neo4j notification framework.

.GQL status information codes
[cols="1,1,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|GQLSTATUS
|Condition
|Subcondition
|Description

| 00000
| Successful completion
|
| Successful completion with a regular non-empty result

| 00001
| Successful completion
| Omitted result
| Successful completion with no return columns (e.g., update with no `RETURN` clause)

| 02000
| No data
| 

> | Successful completion with an empty result 

Reviewer 2: Potentially we could clarify that this means 'no result rows' (in contrast to 'no result columns' for 00001). But on the other hand, 'empty result' is an established concept which we use elsewhere in docs. I leave it up to you to decide

> | 01000

Reviewer 2: I agree that they feel a bit separate and should maybe be documented somewhere else. As I wrote in Slack, currently a user cannot get them. I am not sure of their purpose actually, hopefully our GQL guru Stefan knows

> | 01000

Author: In my opinion, if they are not visible to users, there is no need to document them (for now, at least).

| Warning
| 
|

| 03000
| Informational
| 
| 

|===

In summary:

* _successful completion_ (00000) is raised to indicate successful completion with a regular non-empty result.
* _no data_ (02000) is raised to indicate successful completion with an empty result.

> * _successful completion — omitted result_ (00001) is raised to indicate successful completion with an omitted result.

Reviewer 2: For consistency with the rest of the section, I would flip the order of these two bullet points.

In the documentation, we call them `SUCCESS`, `OMITTED RESULT`, and `NO DATA`

> All query executions always return one of `SUCCESS`, `OMITTED RESULT`, or `NO DATA` results.

Reviewer 2: Technically, I guess a query execution will either return one of these or result in an error. I don't know if we want to clarify that?

link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/planning-and-tuning/[`EXPLAIN` queries] always give `OMITTED RESULT`.

> Classification, severity, position, and status parameters are not meaningful for these GQL statuses, so they are not included in the diagnostic record but the corresponding getter methods on server and driver side will be poly-filled with the default values.

Reviewer 3: Drivers treat those values as absence and each driver follow a slightly different. Some made those values optional, others use a `UNKNOWN` classification/category and empty position, which is more appropriated for the language and driver api.
